When you look for help online regarding your computer, you encounter three main types of resources: Official documentation, articles written about specific issues (and the 7 best ways to resolve them) and forums. Online you find an incredible wealth of information related to almost any technical problem you could encounter; whether it's regarding specific javascript functions, a specific command in blender, or trouble shooting a weird sound that you laptop has been making. Most of this information is shared for free, and accessible to anyone with an internet connection and the knowledge of what the correct search terms might be.

I always think there is a bit of a paradox here. Most of the issues I have encountered and tried to solve have been discussed in an online forum somewhere, which means that someone has made an account on said forum, formulated their issue, posted their question, and waited, sometimes for days, hoping for people to reply in a way that would help them resolve it. Personally I have never posted a question anywhere. It seems like all the questions have already been asked and answered by others before me. This always makes me wonder who the people are that asked these questions in the first place, or: how unlucky you have to be to encounter a problem with your computer/code/whatever that has not been discussed at length on stackoverflow.

There is definitely virtue in making all this information available for free; in people helping each other out without compensation. Experts in almost any field actually spend their free time solving stranger's issues on the internet, which is always kind of amazing to me. But these places have a tendency to be kind of gate-keepy as well, and there certainly is some kind of clout connected to knowing things better. One way this aspect manifests itself is a situation that I'm sure many people who have tried their hand at programming before have experienced: Someone asks a question on a forum "how do i do x with programming language y", or "how can i achieve this while also doing that", and someone in the replies will say "you actually shouldn't do that, here are reasons why it's a bad idea". 

Now, in and of itself this is not bad advice, since of course OP might not know better. However, these answers usually stop there, and they don't include a second part along the lines of "But, knowing this might be a bad idea, here is how you would do x with programming language y". I always find this very strange, because of course you can never know the purpose of the original question, which makes this categorization into "good" or "bad" code so arbitrary. At the same time it's kind of belittling of course, implying that you know so much better than OP.

I somehow think that this example is somehow symptomatic of a lot of tech discourse online, and I'm wondering if there is not another, more situational language that could be efficient to use in these cases.