*Dear Reader,*

*I'm not entirely sure what I am supposed to write here. The text below is what I could imagine to be the beginning of my essay, but it might also be the middle part, or the end. I think I will continue writing about small snippets of information that I have found and try to connect them into one more or less coherent narrative that tries to explore something along the lines of "why am iI so sad if everything is so smooth", to quote a sandberg alumni.*

*it's currently really rough, I want to bring also some personal experience into it but have not found the way to do this yet. Maybe I should remove the first person from it, or exaggerate it more?*

—

On September 12th, 2010 the Youtube Channel revelation13net uploaded a video titled *By Psychokinesis a Psychic turns a Cloud into a Square Cloud in Sept. 2010.* In this 02:18 video, a man is filming the sky with a handheld camera. Visible is a single cloud on an otherwise entirely blue sky, lined by some trees on the edge of the frame. We never see the person holding the camera but can hear them speak throughout the video. They introduce themselves as T. Chase and explain that they will now attempt to change the shape of the cloud into a square through psychic powers. They keep repeating this statement like a mantra of sorts, altering and distorting their voice as the video progresses. The cloud slowly changes shape, and by the end of the video it does look more like a square than in the beginning of the video, even though it's hard to say whether this might have just been the way it naturally changed shape.

In September 2008, the free software advocate Richard Stallman expressed his concerns regarding cloud computing to the Guardian, claiming that it was "stupid" and just a way to lock users into proprietary ecosystems. Stallman is a prominent advocate for privacy and the open source movement, and (among a lot of other things) founder of the Free Software Foundation. He is well-respected in the tech community, but his statements about cloud computing received mixed responses. He was accused of [populism](https://web.archive.org/web/20081122005447/http://www.mathewingram.com/work/2008/09/29/hey-hey-you-you-get-off-of-my-cloud/), supposedly ignoring the lived realities of actual users who are often already trapped on their operating systems and office suites anyway and don't necessarily have the capacities to practice the cloud refusal he was preaching. Others accused Stallman of simply stating the obvious. [Reuven Cohan](https://web.archive.org/web/20081205032726/http://www.elasticvapor.com/2008/09/stupid-redux-old-man-gnu-yells-at-cloud.html) illustrated this criticism with a still from an episode of the animated TV show *the Simpsons,* which ended up becoming something of a meme later. The image shows a newspaper clipping in which Abe Simpson, the elderly father of one of the protagonists, Homer Simpson, angrily shakes his fist at the sky under the headline "Old Man Yells at Cloud". Since my 30th birthday last month I sometimes think this image is actually about me.

The Cloud is a mystical space, its name is already opaque, veiling what it actually describes, which you could call network infrastructure, or maybe just: someone else's computer. Interestingly the term originates from exactly this position of not knowing, of occlusion. In network diagrams the cloud is traditionally used to denote parts of the network that we have no control over or no concrete knowledge about. For example, I could draw a detailed diagram of how my electronic devices connect to the wifi router in my house, but all nodes beyond the router could be collected under the abstraction of "the internet", which would be represented as a cloud. Its shape alludes to the uncertainty of what is out there, something that constantly changes shapes, is hard to grasp.

This state of uncertainty is maybe why attempts to refuse "the cloud" can often feel like yelling into the void. Defining what it exactly is that we are refusing is already a tiring exercise. As it often is with computers, the conversation is one-sided, with us yelling at the cloud, trying to shape it, but not getting a response, because the cloud doesn't generally care. Still, a vague feeling of urgency remains and as a growing number of people acknowledge the exploitative material realities of the seemingly immaterial cloud, it becomes clear that something needs to change.

As has been discussed many times, a lot of connections can be drawn between the 1960s counter culture movements and the history of computing, starting with the fact that both were simultaneously flourishing at the big Universities in California during that time. In this light we can make a comparison between this newly found desire to leave the cloud and the desire of the hippies to leave the cities and capitalism, to form new communities and spaces in which they could renegotiate the rules, do things differently. The 1960s *Back to the Land* movement often implied attempts to create self sustainable communities away from the big, metropolitan hubs and in collaboration with nature. If we take the cloud as the exit point for this new, contemporary movement away from it, it would be interesting to define what the "land", that we want to (supposedly) return to, could be in this case, and to have a closer look at who the people are that get to do these kind of things.

Before the cloud was a cloud it was an ocean. Cybernetcis.