# November 17, 2021

## 11:01 AM


Dear Research Diary,

I was not going to write you, in fact I had already decided that I wouldn't have time because I feel a bit overwhelmed with my thesis/essay and all the things I do next to the Sandberg. However last night I had the realization of how practical you actually are—and how much you fit in with the other things I am doing for my thesis. 

On the one hand, you are a continuation of the logbook that I have been keeping while working on the server. From the beginning, this logbook was a way for me not only to log what I have been doing in terms of setup, but also to collect all the links that I have been visiting along the way (forums I visited, articles about setting up Linux I used as instructions) and on top of that to record the emotional component of building a computer. The frustrations, small mistakes and oversights, the broken USB sticks that make you question your sanity, and the cathartic Eureka moments.

Paul, over at Yale, is currently working on making this Logbook into a publication of sorts, as well as a tool that we can use to keep writing this Log. (Side note: I think that this system is also pretty good actually...)

On the other hand, this research diary is a way to start formulating something that I have been thinking of including in the final text, but don't know how, yet: my setup. 

For my intensive-writing-week I went to Sweden, the Småland to be precise. I'm staying with a childhood friend of mine, Tom Keller, who's family bought a house here 30 years ago which is taking care of now. I spent many summers and a winter here as a child. The house is in the middle of nowhere, literally, with only a few farms in the vicinity and the next town several kilometers away. We are surrounded by forests and lakes, and when he asked me if I wanted to come here with him for a week so he can fix some things around the house I had the realization that this was exactly what I need: a place with no distractions, away from Amsterdam, Sandberg and Hotel Mokum, and on top of that a place that perfectly fits the topic of my text. It's all very cute, I go to sleep early, we cook, heat with firewood and sleep long. During the day I write and read, I aim for 8 hours a day but am ok with 6.

Then for the digital part: I finally solved my writing tool dilemma, and am super happy about this. I built a system that is completely client-independent, which is just writing in Markdown. I then use Typora to edit the files, which is a super clean and slick way of writing, but it could easily be replaced by whatever app I would use next (Left by hundred rabbits, for example). All my files are in the Nextcloud that I am hosting on my server, meaning they are saved remotely, as well as that I can edit everything from everywhere through the browser (Nextcloud comes with a built-in markdown editor), even collaboratively. In the main folder I set up a git repository, allowing me to do version control, so now I can just save over my files and if I ever want to go back in time, I can just do that. I would love to talk to Paul about a way of using this as a publishing workflow, because I know there are ways to use git to deploy, meaning we could use this workflow to directly publish to our logbook online, for example.

Anyway this first entry has become long enough, I will now start working on my actual thesis. As a finishing though, I started reading a book about the physicality of the internet yesterday, which Micaela recommended to me. It's light reading material more than anything I think, but one central point which I like a lot is that the physical and the digital are not separate at all. It sounds logical, but of course we have always made a bit of a divide between physical and digital space in the server project, and I think collapsing this distinction can be very interesting.