The article in question is published on lowtech magazine. It's a publication that often deals with questions of sustainibility and technology. However, as a designer, I have to admit that the thing that made lowtech magazine stand out to me, was it's website. Lowtechmagazine is hosted on a solarpowered server, and if there is no sun in spain the website might be offline. This poses a lot of questions about our expectations of **availability** online (why is it that websites shouldn't have opening times?), **sustainability** (which in this case is double edged sword, since neither batteries nor computer parts in general are particularly sustainable, and the modems and network structures necessary to *serve* are probably not solar powered in this case) and **autonomy** (self hosting/independence from the power grid).

This in itself contextualises the article, because in a way, of course, the server that lowtechmagazine is hosted on is a server for the 21st century: an attempt at tackling (at least some of) the issues that surround tech in general, the internet more specifically, and us as its digital inhabitants now and in the future.

This is interesting to me, because I have been trying to make the bridge between seefaring and self hosting for more than a year now. It also begs the question of whether I would have been interested in this article if it had been hosted anywhere else. But since it isn't, maybe this is a thought I can put away for now.

In terms of content, however, this article claims that the current shipping infrastructure is killing the planet, and that what we need is sailing ships. Gotta wind power things i guess.

