> I was specifically thinking about Black Transparency, I actually used a quote from that book that I came across in some ancient notes of mine (Carmen and I came to the book launch back then). I’m writing about spatial metaphors for the virtual, among other things an analogy of the early web to the ocean, and I guess there is an unavoidable part about different ideas of freedoms in my essay, about what you called *libertarian leisure culture* in an indie talk one time. I guess this also relates to Sealand? In any case, I try to not dwell on these things too much in the essay, I’m more interested in what comes afterwards, and to me it seems your focus as artists has also shifted away from this discussion, that’s where the *earlier* comes from. Hope that makes more sense :)

Aha I see. It makes sense, but our interest was never so much in independence as much as in the ways in which former sovereignty can be described as networked and network can be described as sovereign. As we know, the ways of libertarian politicians and WikiLeaks went nowhere. It is given in the notion of sovereignty that a set of governing laws will not be respected e.g. will be suspended, so any power arrangement in which there is a substantial power imbalance will result in that. I feel that Marlinspike’s recent essay on platforms and web3 drove the point home for the same thing being true for web3 and centralisation.

I think your turn to squatting and physical space is really important. I would recommend reading Anastasia Kubrak’s thesis from a few years ago—I am saying this because I recommended Henri Lefebvre’s *The Production of Space* to Anastasia when she was writing it. Whilst she really focused on geo-fencing, I feel your work with Hotel Mokum has intervened more directly in the sorely needed physical space. I guess I am interested in a form of thinking that takes these physical and social forms between people into account more than treating a Discord server as the equivalent of a home.

This is also the reason why we have moved on from the libertarian views. These are no longer a speculative provocation to a "stable system"—the system has reversed so that uncertainty is all that it produces, so we need to focus on the embodied physical experience and perception (the outside world and our neural systems best guesses meeting in the middle) that lies beyond and below it.  We can talk about physics but not about Nick Land. This is not anti-tech but it is just really bored with speculative design. I am still a fan of the Sealand project though and it still informs me.